# Smart Attendance System

# Introduction

The current attendance system in most educational facilities is paper-based. Meaning, students have to mannually sign in so they may be counted as having attended school/class.
This poses problems such as : 
1. Students signing of behalf of others. 
2. Students signing in the wrong arrival time. 
3. Time consuming and tideous, as is anyting requiring paper-work 
4. Data can be easily lost/ difficulty in data retrieval. 

# Small intro to the Project
This is a smart attendance system that seeks to reduce paper work and its cons in school/class attendance. 

HOW WILL/SHOULD IT WORK?
1. Students are given , by their institution, a smart card that they should carry if they have activities or classes. 
2. Students, at the entrance, insert their card in a machine (We can call it... a Card Reader Machine, or CRM for short)
3. An electro-magnetic field is generated by the CRM which creates a small current in the card's chip and that is how the machine and card interract with each other.
4. An encryption key is generated each time the card interracts with the machine to avoid any other user from accessing the data, then it is decrypted once at the exit. 
5. A people counter is placed on the entrance to count the number of students attending class, to avoid proxy attendance. 
6. After decryption in point number 4, the student's attendance data is increased by 1 in the institution's database. 

# BUILDING AND CONTRIBUTION

This project will be built overtime and updates will be provided gradually as we build. Any contribution is very much welcome!
